Syntax Tree
In Remora, expressions and array elements are syntactically separated.
Every expression must represent an array, whereas array elements may be non-array values (such as base data and functions).
This is normally described with two mutually recursive tree types, one for expressions and one for elements.
Here, we use delayed recursion to gain some flexibility about AST annotations (which will be added by later passes).
The compiler's abstract syntax tree is defined as a variant, with one branch for each possible syntactic form.

Two ways to complete the recursion are offered.
A rem_expr or rem_elt simply uses rem_expr and rem_elt as the expression and element child node types.
The term (foo bar baz) would be represented as RExpr (App (RExpr foo, [RExpr bar; RExpr baz])).
This form is meant for constructing either by hand in test data or by a parser, which has no information to include as annotations.
In an ann_expr or ann_elt, the constructor includes a polymorphic annotation field.

There is a pair of procedures for mapping some function over the AST.
The mapped function must specify the behavior at each node; map handles the recursion as appropriate.
This allows AST traversals to explicitly handle only the non-trivial cases and leave simple pass-through cases to map_expr_form/map_elt_for.
For example, annot_expr_app_frame in Frame_notes annotates App forms with their frame shapes and marks "not applicable" on other forms.

A non-annotated AST can be converted to an annotated one where every node is marked with a designated "blank" annotation.
Any function can also be mapped over the annotations in an AST, and two ASTs which differ only in their annotations can have their annotations merged into pairs.
These procedures reuse as much of the input AST structure as possible (e.g., merging will not copy annotations or AST leaves, just create new references to them).
By treating the AST as a persistent data structure, annotation passes can safely "forget" their input annotations.
If the input annotations are needed later, they can be merged back in.


No type inference


Annotating with types


Annotating with frames
Once type annotations are present, the frame shape in an application form can be determined by comparing the function's result cell type with the actual type ascribed to the application form.
The function for making this comparison is the same frame_contribution used in type checking.
This is the information which will be needed later for determining what dimensions a Map form should look past.
Map will treat all of its arguments the same, so the pass which emits them must also emit Replicate operations to ensure that all arguments in an application form have the same frame shape.
A Replicate must add dimensions to its argument to expand the argument's own frame shape to match that of the application form surrounding it.
To prepare for this, every argument within an App form is annotated with the necessary frame expansion.
This pass requires extra arguments which give the expected cell type for the current expression and the overall frame shape of the enclosing application.
When processing an App form, the recursive calls for the arguments are given the corresponding piece of the function's type annotation as well as the App form's frame shape annotation.
Recursive calls for subterms of non-Apps are given None and NotApp to indicate that they should give NotArg as their expansion annotation.

Erasing explicit types


Map/Replicate IR
